Cygwin
======

Installation
------------

Cygwin is available in 32-bit and 64-bit architectures. One of the major
utilities of installing Cygwin is the added functionality it provides
for Emacs. However, since Emacs is only officially supported in 32-bit
format, it is necessary to install the 32-bit version of Cygwin take
take advantage of these functions.

Setup instruction for Cygwin can be found here

<http://x.cygwin.com/docs/ug/setup-cygwin-x-installing.html>

To setup and run Cygwin

1.  Go to <http://www.cygwin.com/setup.exe> to download the latest
    `setup.exe` file. The file should begin downloading automatically.

2.  Run this file and click on the popup window

3.  Select [Install from Internet]{.sans-serif} and click

4.  Install for [All Users]{.sans-serif} in `C:\cygwin`

5.  The local package directory can be the standard download directory:
    [C:/Users/Jon
    Lighthall/Downloads](run:C:/Users/Jon Lighthall/Downloads)

6.  Select [Direct Connection]{.sans-serif}

7.  Select a mirror site such as ~~`ftp://mirror.mcs.anl.gov`~~
    `http://mirror.weathercity.com/` (Vancouver)

This will then load a menu of available packages.

Packages
--------

The packages necessary for a base installation are selected by default.
Some useful additions are:

   **Category**  **Program**               **Suggested Package(s)**
  -------------- ------------------------- -----------------------------
                 fortran                   `gcc-fortran`
                 C++                       `gcc-g++`
                 SVN                       `subversion`
                 Xmgrace                   `grace`
                 SSH                       `openssh`
                 Cygwin Bash Prompt Here   `chere`
                 GNU Apell                 `aspell`
                 Dictionary                `aspell-en`
                 Cygwin/X                  `xinit, X-start-menu-icons`

After selecting these packages, the Cygwin installer will automatically
select addition packages to resolve any dependencies.

The packages given above can be installed by executing the following
command as a batch file.

>      setup-x86.exe ^
>     --packages ^
>     subversion,^
>     grace,^
>     openssh,^
>     chere,^
>     aspell,^
>     aspell-en,^
>     xinit,^
>     gcc-g++,^
>     gcc-fortran,^

Home Directory
--------------

Cygwin (and programs started from within Cygwin) start in the
["home"](run:C:/cygwin/home/) directory. To change the name of the home
directory from the inherited Windows user name, the following changes
should be made.

### Versions prior to 1.7.34

In Cygwin versions before 1.7.34, the home directory was set in
`/etc/passwd`. The command `mkpasswd > /etc/passwd` can be used to
generate the text file if missing. Then search for the user name and
change the location of the home directory specified in the sixth, or
second-to-last, argument of the entry

### Version 1.7.34 and beyond

The `/etc/passwd` file is no longer generated by default. Instead, the
home directory can be specified in `/etc/nsswitch.conf`. Add the line

>      db_home:  /home/lighthall

the default value is `/home/%U` which uses the Windows username.
However, this line will only change the user directory and not the user
name. Additionally, add the line

> `set HOME=C:\cygwin\home\lighthall`

to the `C:/cygwin/Cygwin.bat` file (optional).

To move the home directory out of the Cygwin directory (e.g., to move
the home directory into the My Documents directory) a Cygwin link must
be made. First, make the destination directory and copy the contents of
original directory into the new directory. Then delete the original
directory and make a link.

>     ln -s /cygdrive/c/Users/Jon\ Lighthall/Documents/.cygwin_home /home/lighthall

Username
--------

In order to change the user name, a `/etc/passwd` file must be manually
generated using the following command.

>     mkpasswd -l > /etc/passwd

Modify the `/etc/passwd` file as follows. For example, in the following
line the first instance of `Jon Lighthall` is the user name and the last
instance is the home directory.

>     Jon Lighthall:unused:1000:513:U-JCL-N5010-Win7\Jon Lighthall,S-1-5-21-238998706-
>     2098893708-732278632-1000:/home/Jon Lighthall:/bin/bash

Launching
---------

### mintty

For some reason, ROOT won't launch from a `mintty` window (from within
Cygwin), so it is advantageous to start Cygwin from `cmd` with the
following batch file.

Right-click on the Cygwin shortcut (under the Start menu) and add
`-p 0,0` to the target and (optionally) set the shortcut key to
`Ctrl + Alt + t` to match a Linux (Ubuntu) environment.

### Cygwin.bat

>     @echo off
>
>     C:
>     chdir C:\cygwin\bin
>
>     bash --login -i

The target of the shortcut can be entered as follows to include the
Cygwin icon.

> `C:\cygwin\Cygwin.bat -i C:\cygwin\Cygwin-Terminal.ico`

### bash

Similarly, Cygwin can be invoked from the command prompt using the
command `bash -li` create a shortcut for bash and add the cygwin icon
and change the terminal colors as needed.

Windows integration
-------------------

Add cygwin to path to use linux commands from the Windows command
prompt. Under System Properties, Advanced, Environment Variables...,
select Path in the System variables window and click Edit.... Click new
and enter `C:\cygwin\bin`.

File system navigation from within Cygwin ~~cannot go above the
`cygwin/` directory without the use of links (see
§ [\[root\]](#root){reference-type="ref" reference="root"})~~ is
accomplished with the command `cd /cygdrive/`. To create mintty shell
integrations for open here, enter the following command after installing
chere.

>     chere -i -t mintty

creates [Bash Prompt Here]{.sans-serif} entry in context menu and an
entry in the installed programs list. Be sure that the `.bashrc` file
does not have a `cd ~` entry. Then you may need to add
`C:\Users\Jon\OneDrive\Documents\.cygwin_home` to the start in box under
the program short cut on the menu
