wsl/readme.md, before:

# dotfiles for Windows Subsystem for Linux
One way to utilize the files in this directory is to copy them to the WSL home directory. However, changes in the files will not be tracked by Git. Linux-like symbolic links can be made using the `ln -s` command.

## Prerequisites 
An X windows server is needed use the following link to download Xming.

https://sourceforge.net/projects/xming/files/latest/download

On a fresh install of WSL, Git will first need to be installed.
```bash
sudo apt -y install git
```

If the preceeding command fails, the following should allow the command to run
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y upgrade
```

## Scripts
````
cd config/wsl
./make_links.sh
./install_packages.sh
````

The following commands are executed by the script.
### Bash
Use the following commands to create a symbolic link from the home directory to the `config\wsl` directory
```bash
ln -s ~/config/wsl/.bash_profile ~/.bash_profile
```

### Emacs

```bash
rm -r .emacs.d
ln -s ~/config/wsl/.emacs.d/ ~/.emacs.d

```
### Git
Use the following command to create a symbolic link from the home directory to the `config\cygwin` directory.
```bash
ln -s ~/config/wsl/.gitconfig ~/.gitconfig
ln -s /mnt/c/Users/jonli/OneDrive/Documents/.cygwin_home/.git-credentials ~/.git-credentials
cp /mnt/c/Users/jonli/OneDrive/Documents/.cygwin_home/.git-credentials ~/

```

### SSH
WSL does not allow chmod changes to Windows files. SSH files require certain permissions. A copy of the ssh files is required.
```bash
rsync -vr /mnt/c/Users/jonli/OneDrive/Documents/.cygwin_home/.ssh ~/.ssh
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/config 
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

### ROOT
Use the following command to create symlink from the user directory to the location of the file. This command should be used from 

* the Cygwin home dicectory (`C:\Users\jonli\OneDrive\Documents\.cygwin_home`).

Open a command prompt as Administrator.
```bash
rm .rootrc
mklink .rootrc C:\Users\jonli\OneDrive\Documents\.cygwin_home\config\cygwin\.rootrc
```

```bash
rm .rootrc
rsync -v config/cygwin/.rootrc ./
```

Commit message:

split personal scripts out from make links

wsl/readme.md, after:

# dotfiles for Windows Subsystem for Linux
One way to utilize the files in this directory is to copy them to the WSL home directory. However, changes in the files will not be tracked by Git. Linux-like symbolic links can be made using the `ln -s` command.

## Prerequisites 
An X windows server is needed use the following link to download Xming.

https://sourceforge.net/projects/xming/files/latest/download

On a fresh install of WSL, Git will first need to be installed.
```bash
sudo apt -y install git
```

If the preceeding command fails, the following should allow the command to run
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt -y upgrade
```

## Scripts
````
cd config/wsl
./make_links.sh
./make_links_personal.sh
./install_packages.sh
````

The following commands are executed by the scripts.
### Bash
Use the following commands to create a symbolic link from the home directory to the `config\wsl` directory
```bash
ln -s ~/config/wsl/.bash_profile ~/.bash_profile
```

### Emacs

```bash
rm -r .emacs.d
ln -s ~/config/wsl/.emacs.d/ ~/.emacs.d

```
### Git
Use the following command to create a symbolic link from the home directory to the `config\cygwin` directory.
```bash
ln -s ~/config/wsl/.gitconfig ~/.gitconfig
ln -s /mnt/c/Users/jonli/OneDrive/Documents/.cygwin_home/.git-credentials ~/.git-credentials
cp /mnt/c/Users/jonli/OneDrive/Documents/.cygwin_home/.git-credentials ~/

```

### SSH
WSL does not allow chmod changes to Windows files. SSH files require certain permissions. A copy of the ssh files is required.
```bash
rsync -vr /mnt/c/Users/jonli/OneDrive/Documents/.cygwin_home/.ssh ~/.ssh
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/config 
chmod 600 ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

### ROOT
Use the following command to create symlink from the user directory to the location of the file. This command should be used from 

* the Cygwin home dicectory (`C:\Users\jonli\OneDrive\Documents\.cygwin_home`).

Open a command prompt as Administrator.
```bash
rm .rootrc
mklink .rootrc C:\Users\jonli\OneDrive\Documents\.cygwin_home\config\cygwin\.rootrc
```

```bash
rm .rootrc
rsync -v config/cygwin/.rootrc ./
```
